---
layout: post
title: "Catchup Day #2"
category: Web 
tags: 
- Catchup
---

Your sites are due tonight so we'll focus on resolving any issues and making your sites as cool as possible.

I may add an activity or explaination or two here.  Please come with any questions you'd like answered.

# Q&A

Any questions?

# Topics

* Loading javascript and css from Content Delivery Networks (CDNs)
* Example: <i class="fa fa-info"></i>&nbsp;<i class="fa fa-copyright"></i>&nbsp;<i class="fa fa-dribbble"></i>&nbsp;<i class="fa fa-shekel"></i>&nbsp;<i class="fa fa-skype"></i> - courtesy of [Fontawesome](fontawesome.io/icons/)
  * Add the fontawesome css to your `<head>` element via a CDN: 

```
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.6.3/css/font-awesome.min.css" type="text/css" />
```
  * use `<i class="fa fa-info"></i>` or etec to include icons in your page!
* Inspect Element & View Source to investigate your pages

# Round Robin Help

I'll spend just a minute to two with everyone today, as a check-in.  Plan to show me the basics of your site, ask any questions you have, and hear my suggestions for you (if any). We may do this in small grounps to save time.

# Next week

Next week we are going to start working on manipulating and formatting text.{% marginnote 'word' 'Wiens, John A. “Word Processing versus Writing.” The Auk 100 (1983): 758. https://sora.unm.edu/sites/default/files/journals/auk/v100n03/p0758-p0758.pdf.<br/><br/>Caleb McDaniel, W. “Why (and How) I Wrote My Academic Book in Plain Text | W. Caleb McDaniel.” Last modified September 28, 2012. http://wcm1.web.rice.edu/my-academic-book-in-plain-text.html.<br/><br/>Stross, Charlie. “Why Microsoft Word Must Die.” Charlie’s Diary. Last modified October 12, 2013. http://www.antipope.org/charlie/blog-static/2013/10/why-microsoft-word-must-die.html.' %}  

To prepare for this philosophically, I would like you to read a few blog posts and a very short article. 

The first is a short article from about the difference between word processing and writing from the earliest days word processors.

The blog posts are about the relative merits of giving up word processors altogether and using plaintext the way we have been in this class.